What is the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm used for?

A) Sorting
B) Prime number generation
C) Searching
D) Encryption







Which of the following is not a step in the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?
a) Create a boolean array of size n+1                    
b) Initialize all elements of the array to true
c) mark flase for all non prime numbers
d) Print all non prime numbers from the array








What is the purpose of the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?
a) To sort an array of numbers
b) To find the largest prime factor of a number
c) To find all prime numbers up to a certain limit
d) To calculate the factorial of a number









Which algorithm Finds prime numbers in between given range?
a)Eulers phi algorithm                                                 b) simple sieve Algorithm
c)Segmented Sieve Algorithm                                   d) Remainder Algorithm







In the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm, what is the first step?

A) Initializing an array with all elements set to 1
B) Marking 0 and 1 as non-prime
C) Starting from 2, mark multiples of each prime number as non-prime
D) None of the above











What is the time complexity of the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?

A) O(n)
B) O(n log n)
C) O(n^2)
D) O(n log log n)









How does the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm work?

A) By dividing each number by all previous primes
B) By iterating through each number and checking for divisibility by all numbers less than it
C) By eliminating multiples of primes from a list of numbers
D) By recursively applying a formula to generate primes








What is the main advantage of the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?

A) It generates primes faster than trial division
B) It uses less memory than trial division
C) It is more efficient for smaller ranges of numbers
D) It guarantees finding all prime numbers within a given range









Which of the following statements about the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm is false?

A) It is named after the Greek mathematician Euclid
B) It is an ancient algorithm for finding all prime numbers up to a specified integer
C) It can be implemented using an array data structure
D) It eliminates multiples of primes starting from the smallest prime








In the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm, what is the complexity of marking all multiples of a prime number?

A) O(n)
B) O(log n)
C) O(n log n)
D) O(1)









Which of the following is a step in the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?

A) Finding the greatest common divisor (GCD) of two numbers
B) Checking for perfect squares
C) Multiplying all primes together
D) Marking multiples of primes as non-prime









What is the complexity of finding all prime numbers less than or equal to n using the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?

A) O(n)
B) O(n log n)
C) O(n^2)
D) O(n log log n)









Which of the following numbers would not be marked as non-prime in the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?

A) 4
B) 6
C) 8
D) 9









How does the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm optimize prime number generation compared to trial division?
A) By using a dynamic programming approach
B) By avoiding redundant checks for divisibility
C) By employing parallel processing
D) By employing probabilistic algorithms









What is the space complexity of the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?
A) O(1)
B) O(n)
C) O(log n)
D) O(n log n)










Which of the following is not a step in the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?
A) Initializing an array with all elements set to 0
B) Marking 0 and 1 as non-prime
C) Starting from 1, mark multiples of each prime number as non-prime
D) None of the above






In the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm, why is it unnecessary to check numbers greater than the square root of n when sieving primes?
A) Because all non-primes greater than the square root of n have already been marked
B) Because all numbers greater than the square root of n are guaranteed to be prime
C) Because any non-prime factors of n must be less than or equal to its square root
D) Because checking numbers greater than the square root of n would be redundant










What is the smallest prime number generated by the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?
A) 0
B) 1
C) 2
D) 3








Which of the following data structures is commonly used to implement the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?
A) Linked list
B) Array
C) Queue
D) Stack









Which of the following is a limitation of the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?
A) It cannot handle large prime numbers
B) It requires pre-computation of primes
C) It cannot be parallelized
D) It is not efficient for very large ranges of numbers










What is the complexity of finding the sum of all prime numbers less than or equal to n using the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm?
A) O(n)
B) O(n log n)
C) O(n^2)
D) O(n log log n)











In the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm, what is the complexity of marking multiples of each prime number?
A) O(n)
B) O(log n)
C) O(n log n)
D) O(1)












Which of the following is a common optimization technique used in the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm to reduce memory usage?
A) Using a doubly-linked list
B) Using a bit array instead of a boolean array
C) Using a binary search tree
D) Using a priority queue













What is Euler's Phi (Totient) function used for?

A) Prime number generation
B) Counting the number of coprime integers less than or equal to a given integer
C) Finding the greatest common divisor (GCD) of two numbers
D) Generating permutations of a sequence










What is the value of φ(1) according to Euler's Phi function?

A) 0
B) 1
C) 2
D) Undefined










What is the Euler's Phi function value of a prime number p?

A) 0
B) 1
C) p - 1
D) p










Which of the following is a property of Euler's Phi function?

A) φ(m * n) = φ(m) * φ(n)
B) φ(m + n) = φ(m) + φ(n)
C) φ(m^n) = n * φ(m)
D) φ(m / n) = φ(m) / φ(n)









What is the time complexity of computing Euler's Phi function for a given number n using a brute force approach?

A) O(n)
B) O(n log n)
C) O(n^2)
D) O(sqrt(n))











Euler's Phi function is multiplicative, which means:

A) φ(m * n) = φ(m) + φ(n)
B) φ(m * n) = φ(m) * φ(n)
C) φ(m * n) = φ(m^n)
D) φ(m * n) = m * n










Which of the following is NOT a property of Euler's Phi function?

A) φ(p^k) = p^(k-1) * (p-1)
B) φ(m) = m - 1 if m is prime
C) φ(m * n) = φ(m) + φ(n) for coprime m and n
D) φ(1) = 1








Euler's Phi function of a prime power p^k, where p is prime and k is a positive integer, is:

A) p^k - 1
B) p^k
C) p^(k-1) * (p-1)
D) p^(k+1)










Which of the following is the Euler's Phi function of 12?

A) 2
B) 4
C) 6
D) 8












Euler's Phi function of a composite number n can be calculated efficiently using:

A) Trial division
B) Brute force method
C) Prime factorization of n
D) Recursive approach











The Euler's Phi function of a prime number p is:
A) p - 1
B) p
C) 1
D) 0









Euler's Phi algorithm is based on:
A) Dynamic programming
B) Prime factorization
C) Breadth-first search
D) Depth-first search












Which of the following statements about Euler's Phi algorithm is true?
A) It has a time complexity of O(n)
B) It generates prime numbers up to n
C) It relies on recursive function calls
D) It calculates Euler's Phi function for a given number efficiently












What is the time complexity of Euler's Phi algorithm for computing φ(n)?
A) O(n)
B) O(log n)
C) O(sqrt(n))
D) O(n log log n)










Euler's Phi algorithm is mainly used for:
A) Prime number generation
B) Counting coprime integers
C) Finding divisors of a number
D) Calculating factorials














The value of Euler's Phi function φ(1,000) is:
A) 400
B) 600
C) 800
D) 1000








Euler's Phi function of a number n is equal to n - 1 if:
A) n is prime
B) n is even
C) n is odd
D) n is a perfect square









Which of the following is NOT a property of Euler's Phi function?
A) φ(m * n) = φ(m) * φ(n) if m and n are coprime
B) φ(p^k) = p^(k-1) * (p-1) for prime p and positive integer k
C) φ(m * n) = φ(m) + φ(n) - φ(m) * φ(n) for all m and n
D) φ(1) = 1









Euler's Phi algorithm is based on the principle of:
A) Recursion
B) Divide and conquer
C) Sieve of Eratosthenes
D) Prime factorization










What is Euler's Phi function value of 20?
A) 6
B) 8
C) 12
D) 16







What does the Chinese Remainder Theorem (CRT) state?

A) It provides a method for solving linear congruences
B) It is a theorem in number theory related to the properties of prime numbers
C) It is a theorem in geometry related to congruent triangles
D) It is a theorem in calculus related to the intermediate value theorem










When is the Chinese Remainder Theorem applicable?

A) Only for prime numbers
B) Only for odd numbers
C) When the moduli are pairwise coprime
D) When the moduli are consecutive integers












Which of the following is NOT a requirement for applying the Chinese Remainder Theorem?

A) The moduli must be pairwise coprime
B) The moduli must be prime numbers
C) The remainders must be smaller than the corresponding moduli
D) The moduli must be positive integers








What is the Chinese Remainder Theorem used for?

A) Factoring large integers
B) Solving systems of linear congruences
C) Finding the greatest common divisor (GCD) of two numbers
D) Generating prime numbers










How many solutions does a system of linear congruences have according to the Chinese Remainder Theorem?

A) Exactly one
B) At most one
C) Exactly two
D) Infinitely many










What is the complexity of finding a solution using the Chinese Remainder Theorem for a system of n congruences?

A) O(n)
B) O(log n)
C) O(n log n)
D) O(n^2)








In the Chinese Remainder Theorem, what is the role of the moduli?

A) They represent the remainders
B) They represent the divisors
C) They represent the factors
D) They represent the bases








What is the best-case time complexity of an algorithm?
a) The minimum running time the algorithm can achieve
b) The average running time of the algorithm
c) The maximum running time the algorithm can achieve
d) None of the above










What is the difference between a brute force algorithm and an optimized algorithm?
a) Brute force algorithms are more efficient than optimized algorithms
b) Brute force algorithms always find the optimal solution
c) Optimized algorithms are more efficient than brute force algorithms
d) Optimized algorithms use a trial-and-error approach











Which of the following is not a common measure of algorithm efficiency?
a)Time complexity                     b) Space complexity
c)Network complexity               d)Auxiliary space complexity










Which of the following is true about Java?
a) Java is a platform independent programming language
b) Java can only be run on Windows operating systems
c) Java is primarily used for system-level programming
d) Java programs are executed directly by the computer's hardware











What is the default value of an uninitialized int variable in Java?
a)0                                        b) 1                           c) null                             d)undefined










What is the entry point for a Java program?
a)main()                      b)start()                   c) execute()                    d) run()












Which class is used to read input from the keyboard in Java?
a) Buffered Reader		b) Scanner		c)A & B		d)  File Reader












Which class is used to write output to the console in Java?
a) Buffered Writer                                                      b) Print Writer
c) Output Stream Writer                                           d)  File Writer














Which method is used to read a line of text from the console in Java?
a) NextInt()		b) nextLine()		c) readString()		d) getString()













The break statement is used in Java to:
a)Terminate the current loop or switch statement and transfer control to the next statement.
b)Skip the current iteration of a loop and continue with the next iteration.
c)Exit the entire program
d)Assign a value to a variable based on a condition











Where is the continue statement typically used?
a)Only in for loops                                b)Only in while loops
c)Only in do-while loops                     d) In any loop construct (e.g., for, while, do-while)












Which statement allows you to handle multiple possible conditions in Java?
	a) If		b)else		c )Switch	d) while













What is the full form of JVM?
a) Java versatile machine       b) Java Virtual Machine	c)  Java Variable Machine 	d)  None













The Chinese Remainder Theorem is based on the principle of:
a) Modular arithmetic                                                   b)Exponential growth
c) Prime factorization                                                    d)Polynomial interpolation











Which of the following is a consequence of the Chinese Remainder Theorem?

A) It guarantees the existence of a solution
B) It guarantees the uniqueness of a solution
C) It guarantees the existence of infinitely many solutions
D) It guarantees the existence of a prime number









In the context of the Chinese Remainder Theorem, what does it mean for moduli to be pairwise coprime?

A) They have a common divisor greater than 1
B) They have no common divisor greater than 1
C) Their product is a prime number
D) Their product is even










What is the Chinese Remainder Theorem often used for in cryptography?

A) Encrypting messages
B) Decrypting messages
C) Generating cryptographic keys
D) Cracking encryption algorithms












Which of the following statements is true about the Chinese Remainder Theorem?
A) It only applies to systems of linear equations
B) It provides a constructive algorithm for finding solutions
C) It can only solve systems with two congruences
D) It requires the moduli to be consecutive integers










/*In the Chinese Remainder Theorem, what does the term "residue" refer to?
A) The remainder obtained when dividing a number by a modulus
B) The product of the numbers and moduli
C) The remainder obtained when dividing a modulus by a number
D) The quotient obtained when dividing a number by a modulus*/











Which of the following is a limitation of the Chinese Remainder Theorem?
A) It can only handle small numbers
B) It requires the moduli to be prime numbers
C) It may not find a solution if the moduli are not pairwise coprime
D) It cannot be used in cryptography











What is the Chinese Remainder Theorem used for in computer science?
A) Solving linear systems of equations
B) Optimizing algorithms
C) Data compression
D) Error correction in data transmission










How does the Chinese Remainder Theorem ensure the existence of a solution?
A) By finding the least common multiple (LCM) of the moduli
B) By utilizing the properties of congruences
C) By performing matrix operations
D) By using prime factorization












Which of the following statements about the Chinese Remainder Theorem is false?
A) It can be extended to handle non-coprime moduli
B) It is named after the Chinese mathematician Sun Tzu
C) It is used in various fields including cryptography and number theory
D) It is based on the concept of congruences











What is the Chinese Remainder Theorem used for in signal processing?
A) Filtering noise from signals
B) Modulating signals for transmission
C) Decomposing signals into component frequencies
D) Recovering a signal from its samples















Which of the following is NOT a step in the Chinese Remainder Theorem algorithm for finding a solution?
A) Finding the product of all moduli
B) Calculating the modular inverses
C) Combining the congruences using the Chinese Remainder Theorem formula
D) Testing divisibility of the residues by the moduli













What is the Chinese Remainder Theorem primarily used for in mathematics?
A) Calculating trigonometric functions
B) Solving systems of linear equations
C) Investigating properties of prime numbers
D) Proving theorems in number theory












Which of the following is a common application of the Chinese Remainder Theorem in real-world problems?
A) Forecasting weather patterns
B) Scheduling tasks in project management
C) Optimizing transportation routes
D) Dividing resources among multiple parties












Algorithm A and B have a worst-case running time of O(n) and O(logn), respectively. Therefore, which algorithm always runs faster .
a) B runs Faster                                     b) A runs Faster
c) Both A & B                                         d) None of the above







Which method is used to convert all characters in a string to lowercase?

A) toLowerCase()
B) lowerCase()
C) makeLower()
D) convertLower()











What is the correct way to extract a substring from a string in Java?

A) substr(startIndex, endIndex)
B) substring(startIndex)
C) subString(startIndex, length)
D) substring(startIndex, endIndex)













Which method is used to replace all occurrences of a specified character in a string with another character?

A) replace()
B) replaceAll()
C) replaceChar()
D) swap()









Two main measures of the efficiency of an algorithm are?
a) Time and space complexity                           b) Data and space
c) Processor and memory                                  d) Complexity and capacity








What will be the time complexity of the following code?
public static void main(String[] args) {int n = 100;
a) O(n)		 b) O(N log N)		c) O(n^2)              d) O(Log n)




What is the sum of all single-digit strobogrammatic numbers?
a) 5                                        b) 9                 c) 1                           d) 8









How many strobogrammatic numbers are there between 10 and 100?
a)12                                 b)10                    c)8                            d)4






Find all possible strobogrammatic numbers that are of length=2?
a)8                              b) 4                           c)6                          d) 9










How many strobogrammatic numbers are there in first 1000 natural numbers?
a)18                       b) 20                                c)14                               d)19













Which of the following is used to represent the time complexity of an algorithm?
a) Big O notation                                                         b) Binary search tree
c) Hash table                                                                 d) Red-black tree















Which of the following Big O notations represents the best time complexity?
a)O(1)                   b)O(log n)                                  c) O(n)                  d)O(n^2)












If GCD of two numbers is 1, then the two numbers are said to be __
a) Co-prime numbers                                                b) Prime numbers
c)Composite numbers                                              d) Rational numbers









Which feature of Java allows you to define classes and create objects to represent real-world entities?
a) Procedural Oriented Programming        b) Aspected Oriented Programming (AOP)
c) Object-oriented programming (OOP)   d) All the Above












Which of the following is the correct structure of a Java program?
a) Method, Class, Package                                                 b) Package, Class, Method
c) Class, Package, Method                                                 d) Method, Package, Class













What is the correct syntax for a single-line comment in Java?
a) /* This is a comment */                                                    b) // This is a comment
c) <!-- This is a comment -->                                                 d) ** This is a comment **










What is the value of x after the following statement: int x = 5 % 2;
a)5                                  b) 2.5                                   c) 1                                 d) 0













What is the value of y after the following statement: int x = 5; int y = x++;
a)5                                 b) 6                                       c) 4  
                   d) Compilation error








Which operator is used for string concatenation in Java?
a)#ERROR!                    b)  -                          c)  *                                    d) /










Which control structure allows you to execute a block of code at least once, regardless of the condition?
a) if statement   	b) for loop 	c) while loop 		d) do-while loop








Which control structure allows you to execute a block of code repeatedly as long as a certain condition is true?
a) if statement          b) for loop 		c) If else if	 d) switch statement













Which of the following statements about algorithms is true?
a) An algorithm must have a finite number of steps.
b) An algorithm can have an infinite number of steps.
c) An algorithm must produce the correct output for every input.
d) An algorithm cannot be represented in pseudocode.













Which of the following is not a type of algorithm?
a) Divide and Conquer
b) Dynamic Programming
c) Linear Regression
d) Greedy Algorithms













Which type of algorithm focuses on making the locally optimal choice at each stage with the hope of finding a global optimum?
a) Divide and Conquer
b) Greedy Algorithms
c) Dynamic Programming
d) Backtracking












Which algorithmic technique involves breaking down a problem into smaller subproblems, solving each subproblem independently, and then combining their solutions to form the solution to the original problem?
a) Brute Force
b) Greedy Algorithms
c) Divide and Conquer
d) Backtracking










Which algorithmic technique is typically used for problems where the solution space is too large to be explored exhaustively but can be pruned effectively?
a) Dynamic Programming
b) Brute Force
c) Greedy Algorithms
d) Backtracking









Which of the following is an example of a greedy algorithm?
a) Dijkstra's Algorithm
b) Prim's Algorithm
c) Knapsack Problem
d) Binary Search










In dynamic programming, what is the purpose of storing the results of subproblems?
a) To make the algorithm run faster
b) To avoid recomputation of the same subproblems
c) To simplify the implementation of the algorithm
d) To ensure correctness of the algorithm












Which type of algorithmic technique would you choose to solve the Tower of Hanoi problem efficiently?
a) Greedy Algorithms
b) Backtracking
c) Divide and Conquer
d) Dynamic Programming










Which algorithmic technique would you typically use to solve optimization problems involving finding the shortest path in a graph?
a) Greedy Algorithms
b) Backtracking
c) Dynamic Programming
d) Divide and Conquer









Which of the following is not a characteristic of a good algorithm?
a) Efficiency
b) Correctness
c) Simplicity
d) Unpredictability








What is the space complexity of the following code?
 public static void printNumbers(int n) {
  int[] numbers = new int[n]; 
  for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) { 
  numbers[i] = i + 1;    }
  for (int number : numbers) {    System.out.print(number + " ");   }


a)O(1)                                b)O(n)                                  c)O(n^2)             d)O(log n)









The most widely used notation for space complexity is
a) Big O notation                                b) Theta notation
c)Omega notation                             d) Little O notation
		







What does the term "auxiliary space" refer to in space complexity analysis?
a) The amount of space required by the input data
b) The amount of space required by the algorithm's input parameters
c) The extra space required by an algorithm, apart from the input space
d) The space required by the algorithm's output












What does it mean when an algorithm has a space complexity of O(1)?
a) The algorithm requires a constant amount of space, regardless of the input size
b) The algorithm requires a linear amount of space, directly proportional to the input size
c) The algorithm requires exponential space, growing rapidly with the input size
d) The algorithm does not require any space





What is a binary palindrome?

A) A binary number with all zeros
B) A binary number that reads the same backward as forward
C) A binary number with alternating 0s and 1s
D) A binary number divisible by 2








Which of the following binary numbers is a palindrome?

A) 101101
B) 110011
C) 100111
D) 111000











What is the smallest binary palindrome that is greater than 1000?

A) 1001
B) 1010
C) 1100
D) 1111
















How many binary palindromes are there with 6 bits?

A) 2
B) 4
C) 8
D) 16













Which of the following is NOT a binary palindrome?

A) 1110111
B) 1101011
C) 1001111
D) 1011101













What is the binary representation of the decimal number 13?

A) 1101
B) 1011
C) 1110
D) 1001










If a binary palindrome has an odd number of bits, what can we say about its middle bit?

A) It must be 0
B) It must be 1
C) It can be either 0 or 1
D) It is always undefined











Which of the following is a binary palindrome with an even number of bits?

A) 10101010
B) 111000111
C) 10101101
D) 10100101










What is the sum of all binary palindromes with 4 bits?

A) 12
B) 10
C) 8
D) 6









What is the binary representation of the decimal number 17?

A) 10000
B) 10001
C) 11001
D) 11101










How many bits are needed to represent the decimal number 32 in binary?

A) 4
B) 5
C) 6
D) 7










Which of the following binary numbers is NOT a palindrome?

A) 1001001
B) 1110101
C) 1010010
D) 1100110









What is the next smallest binary palindrome after 1010?

A) 1100
B) 1111
C) 10001
D) 1001









What is the largest binary palindrome with 7 bits?

A) 1111111
B) 1010101
C) 1001001
D) 1100110









Which of the following statements is true about binary palindromes?

A) Every binary palindrome is divisible by 2
B) Every binary palindrome is divisible by 3
C) Every binary palindrome is a multiple of 5
D) None of the above











What is the binary representation of the decimal number 15?

A) 1110
B) 1101
C) 1011
D) 1111









How many binary palindromes are there between 1001 and 1100 (inclusive)?

A) 2
B) 3
C) 4
D) 5









What is the binary representation of the decimal number 63?

A) 111110
B) 111111
C) 110111
D) 101111









What is the sum of all binary palindromes with 5 bits?

A) 22
B) 18
C) 14
D) 10







How many binary palindromes are there with exactly two 1s and three 0s?

A) 2
B) 3
C) 4
D) 5








What is the main purpose of the block swap algorithm?

A) To sort elements in an array
B) To swap two blocks of elements within an array
C) To reverse the order of elements in an array
D) To find the maximum element in an array









In the block swap algorithm, how many elements are swapped at a time?

A) One
B) Two
C) Three
D) A contiguous block of elements






Which of the following best describes the time complexity of the block swap algorithm?

A) O(1)
B) O(log n)
C) O(n)
D) O(n^2)






What is the typical scenario where the block swap algorithm is used?

A) Sorting algorithms
B) String manipulation
C) Array manipulation
D) Graph traversal








How does the block swap algorithm differ from traditional swapping algorithms?

A) It only swaps adjacent elements
B) It swaps non-adjacent elements
C) It swaps elements in a circular manner
D) It doesn't swap elements, it swaps blocks of elements






In the block swap algorithm, how many times are the blocks swapped?

A) Once
B) Twice
C) Thrice
D) It depends on the size of the array






What is the space complexity of the block swap algorithm?

A) O(1)
B) O(log n)
C) O(n)
D) O(n^2)





Which data structure is commonly used in implementing the block swap algorithm?

A) Array
B) Linked list
C) Stack
D) Queue





What is the significance of choosing the correct block size in the block swap algorithm?

A) It affects the algorithm's correctness
B) It affects the algorithm's efficiency
C) It affects the algorithm's stability
D) It affects the algorithm's output







In the block swap algorithm, what is typically swapped?

A) Single elements
B) Blocks of elements
C) Adjacent elements
D) Only the first and last elements











How does the block swap algorithm contribute to array manipulation?

A) It reverses the order of elements in an array
B) It shuffles the elements randomly
C) It rotates the elements in the array
D) It removes duplicates from the array







What is the typical block size used in the block swap algorithm?

A) One-third of the array size
B) Half of the array size
C) Two-thirds of the array size
D) It varies based on the problem requirements









Which of the following is a common application of the block swap algorithm?

A) Image processing
B) Database management
C) Cryptography
D) Network routing




What is the best-case time complexity of the block swap algorithm?

A) O(1)
B) O(log n)
C) O(n)
D) O(n^2)






What is the worst-case time complexity of the block swap algorithm?

A) O(1)
B) O(log n)
C) O(n)
D) O(n^2)







What is the primary advantage of the block swap algorithm over traditional swapping algorithms?

A) It requires less memory
B) It is faster for large datasets
C) It guarantees stable sorting
D) It is easier to implement







Quick Sort is based on which algorithmic paradigm?

A) Divide and Conquer
B) Greedy Method
C) Dynamic Programming
D) Backtracking








What is the time complexity of Quick Sort in the worst-case scenario?

A) O(n)
B) O(n log n)
C) O(n^2)
D) O(log n)






Which element is typically chosen as the pivot in Quick Sort?

A) The first element
B) The last element
C) The middle element
D) A randomly selected element







Quick Sort is an in-place sorting algorithm. What does "in-place" mean in this context?

A) It requires extra space proportional to the input size.
B) It doesn't require any extra space beyond the original array.
C) It always sorts the array in ascending order.
D) It only works for arrays of small sizes.









Which sorting algorithm is Quick Sort most similar to?

A) Merge Sort
B) Bubble Sort
C) Insertion Sort
D) Selection Sort




What is the average-case time complexity of Quick Sort?

A) O(n)
B) O(n log n)
C) O(n^2)
D) O(log n)







Quick Sort is not stable. What does it mean for a sorting algorithm to be stable?

A) It always sorts the array in ascending order.
B) It preserves the relative order of equal elements in the sorted array.
C) It sorts the array in descending order.
D) It works efficiently for large datasets.






Which step in the Quick Sort algorithm partitions the array into two subarrays?

A) Selection of pivot
B) Swapping elements
C) Partitioning step
D) Recursive calls








In Quick Sort, what is the process called when elements less than the pivot are moved to the left and elements greater than the pivot are moved to the right?

A) Merge
B) Partition
C) Selection
D) Sorting







What is the space complexity of Quick Sort?

A) O(1)
B) O(log n)
C) O(n)
D) O(n log n)









Selection Sort is based on which algorithmic paradigm?

A) Divide and Conquer
B) Greedy Method
C) Dynamic Programming
D) Backtracking








What is the time complexity of Selection Sort in the worst-case scenario?

A) O(n)
B) O(n log n)
C) O(n^2)
D) O(log n)






What is the main characteristic of Selection Sort?

A) It recursively divides the array into subarrays.
B) It sorts the array by repeatedly selecting the minimum element.
C) It uses a pivot element to partition the array.
D) It swaps adjacent elements if they are in the wrong order.







Selection Sort is an in-place sorting algorithm. What does "in-place" mean in this context?

A) It requires extra space proportional to the input size.
B) It doesn't require any extra space beyond the original array.
C) It always sorts the array in ascending order.
D) It only works for arrays of small sizes.










Which of the following sorting algorithms is Selection Sort most similar to?

A) Merge Sort
B) Bubble Sort
C) Quick Sort
D) Insertion Sort








What is the average-case time complexity of Selection Sort?

A) O(n)
B) O(n log n)
C) O(n^2)
D) O(log n)







Selection Sort is not stable. What does it mean for a sorting algorithm to be stable?

A) It always sorts the array in ascending order.
B) It preserves the relative order of equal elements in the sorted array.
C) It sorts the array in descending order.
D) It works efficiently for large datasets.








Which step in the Selection Sort algorithm selects the minimum element in each pass?

A) Partitioning step
B) Swapping elements
C) Selection of pivot
D) Recursive calls







In Selection Sort, what is the process called when the minimum element is selected and placed in its correct position?

A) Merge
B) Partition
C) Selection
D) Sorting





What is the space complexity of Selection Sort?

A) O(1)
B) O(log n)
C) O(n)
D) O(n log n)


















